1 Define HRM Explain in detail about operational functions of HRM.

2 Distinguish between personnel management and HRM

3 Describe qualitus and traits of a successful HR manager

4 Prepare a HR policies/SOP for a newly started company which belongs to leather manufacturing (comprising all the components of HR).

5 What do you understand by the term SHRM. Appraise the detailed steps in the SHRM process.

6 "Impact of human resource (HRIS) in HRM department of an organization". Comment with your (+ve/-ve).. own view point


7 why is HR auditing is needed for an organization? Bring out the causes


8 Examine the steps in the HRP process (man power planning process).

9 what are the core challenges faced by HR department in the service sector? to Present instances. your points with suitable instances

10 Explain the components of job analysis (job specification,job design & job description). Present the appropriate templates

11 Define Recruitment. Elucitate the detailed process of recruitment.


12 Explain the factor to be considered in the recruitment process.


13 Interepret different in detail about sources of recruitment 

14 Discuss in detail about pros and cons of e-recruitment.

15 Recall the term selection. Appraise the detailed steps in the selection process.

16 what do you mean by TNA (Training Need Analysis)? Present the steps in the TNA process.

17 Different types of training

18 what do you understand by the term Management Development Program (MDP)? Explain the merits of MDP

19 what is career planning. Bring out different stages of career planning

20 Describe objectives and merits of succession planning.


21 Define the term performance appraisal. Explain the objectives and principles of performance appraisal.

22 Present different types of performance appraisal.

23 Differentiate the term salary from wages. Bring out different types of wages.

24 Critically comment on the important factor which are influencing WASA

25 Prepare a pay salary slip/ pay bill for an employer. covering all the components of salary structure.

26 Explain the benefits of skill-based pay.

27 What do you understand by the term broad--banding

28 Tell about job evaluation. Present diffent methods of job evaluation


29 What are the benefits of bonus? 

30 what are the benefits of incentives

31 Present some important incentive types

32 Components of executive compensation

33 Components of fringe benefits.

34 Define motivation. Explain the objectives and merits of motivation.

35 Describe different types of motivation.


36 What are the importance of pyramid need theory to developed by Abraham Maslow.


37 Explain the merits and importance of employee empowerment.

38 State the meaning of the term attrition (labour turnover). Bring out the causes for attrition.

39 As a HR manager, design model to retain the employees (employee retention)

40 What are the merits and role of service employee

41 Explain the objective and functions of service leadership.


42 How will you manage interaction and relationship between employce and customer?


43 what do you understand by service culture? Bring out salient features of service culture in an organization

44 Quality of worklife is very important - Do you agree? Comment with your valid points.


45 Analyye pros and cons of flexible working time /environment/practices followed by many companies in India.
